Fishing draws fishermen far and wide, sailing across many seas. While on the ocean, you know where and are able to catch food for yourself and up to five other people. In addition to this, if you are steering the ship, your party travels 2x faster.
Having served on a ship for many years earned you naval transport documents. Whenever you need transport somewhere, you may use your documents for free passage for your party. You will be expected to assist in ship duties and travel may take longer than expected as you are not the top priority.
Whether you like it or not, you have an uncanny knack for overhearing others. You have advantage on perception checks that pertain to hearing.
Spending many years getting both swindled and overpaid for your weekly findings has given you an almost perfect assessment of the worth of items. When at shops, both selling and buying items, you are able to tell when the shopkeeper is devaluing your items, or inflating the worth of their own.
Being in a position of power, however small, has given you time to discover a secret known by an enemy. Work with your DM to determine who’s secret you know, and how you’ll use it to your advantage.
Placeholder
Huntsmen spend years honing their tracking skills alongside their bestial scent-companions, the result being an inseparable bond. Work with your DM to choose an animal companion.
Your time spent traveling over the mountains and hills has made you hardier than your companions. You need half as much food to survive, and half as much sleep.
If you’ve found yourself or your party on the run from the law, you may enlist the help of nearby thieves to hide you, or help you escape. Other thieves expect this to be paid in kind, or gold, whichever is easier.
Being a pirate means no shortage of battles, on sea, on land, or within the minds of your seafaring companions. Throughout your time as a pirate, you saved a life. Whether you did so begrudgingly or willing, you’re owed a life debt. Work with your DM to determine who you saved, why, and how you can use that debt.
Being a mercenary means you can easily find work where needed. Flashing your guild bracelet affords you a certain amount of respect. You earn more gold than normal due to your professionalism.
When out of combat, you are able to heal yourself and allies with a Service Medical Kit. This kit has 10 uses, and heals for 3d8 each use. It can be refilled for 10 gp.
